This video is brought to you by SquareSpace.
Cabaret is a film that serves as a stark reminder
of how quietly a society can fall into fascism,
especially when those with privilege are willing
to turn a blind eye to atrocities taking place.
Set in 1930s Berlin, the movie explores the
rise of the Naxi party and its impact on the
lives of ordinary people, particularly those
in the entertainment industry.
The story follows the lives of a writer named
Brian and a cabaret performer named Sally
Bowles, who both become caught up in the political
turmoil of the time.
One of the key themes of Cabaret is the danger
of complacency in the face of fascism.
The film portrays a society in which the majority
of people are either indifferent or actively
supportive of the Naxi party.
This isn’t really shoved in the audience’s
face though, since the real plot revolves
around a bisexual love triangle.
It has Surprise Naxis, like The Sound of Music.
This willingness to ignore the third reich
is especially evident though in the character
of Max, a wealthy German Baron who is happy
to take advantage of the opportunities presented
by the Naxi regime, even as he turns a blind
eye to the horrors being committed by the
party.
Max's character serves as a reminder that
those with privilege often have the luxury
of ignoring the suffering of others, as long
as it does not directly affect them.
The character of Sally Bowles also highlights
the dangers of complacency and privilege in
the face of fascism.
Sally is a talented performer who enjoys the
freedoms and opportunities that come with
life in Berlin's bohemian community.
However, she is also naive and self-centered,
with little interest in politics or the world
outside her own narrow sphere.
As the Naxis begin to tighten their grip on
power, Sally remains oblivious to the danger,
choosing instead to focus on her own personal
ambitions.
It is only when she is directly confronted
with the realities of fascism that she begins
to understand the gravity of the situation,
and instead chooses to turn a blind eye…
Another key theme of Cabaret is the role of
propaganda in the rise of fascism.
The film shows how the Naxi party used performing
arts, specifically singing, to promote its
message and win over ordinary people.
This is most evident in the character of the
Emcee, the flamboyant and charismatic host
of the Kit Kat Klub.
While the Emcee initially seems like a harmless
figure, he gradually becomes more and more
sinister as the story progresses, using his
position to spread Naxi propaganda and sow
the seeds of hatred and intolerance.
Overall, Cabaret serves as a powerful warning
about the dangers of fascism and the ease
with which a society can fall into it, especially
when those with privilege are willing to turn
a blind eye to the suffering of others.
And one group that is historically brilliant
at pretending bad things aren’t happening,
or only happen to them, is straight people.
But before we proceed to tonight’s entertainment,
please like and subscribe to my channel, and
sign up for the patreon if you’re feeling
generous.
And now, a word from this video’s sponsor!
This video is brought to you by Squarespace.
Building a site with Squarespace is a great
way to build your brand and reach a wider
audience.
Whether you're a visual artist, photographer,
a writer, a video producer, or work in any
creative field, it's vital to have a site
that you can use to help build your brand
on your own terms.
Nick and I have had a presence on social media
for a while now, and obviously this channel,
but using Squarespace’s incredibly intuitive
and easy to use tools we've built the James
Somerton Channel website featuring a Blog
where Nick and I write about topics that probably
wouldn't make for a full video, a special
section where you can check out preview chapters
of my upcoming novel, as well as check out
Nick's novel gentlemen's club, and using Squarespace's
video hosting features we're able to give
you access to videos that YouTube made us
remove.
You can head to squarespace.com right now
for a free trial and when you're ready to
launch your site go to squarespace.com/JamesS
that's j-a-m-e-s-s to save 10% off of your
first purchase of a website or domain.
Start showing the world how amazing you are
today with Squarespace
The thing is.
We grew up hearing ‘Naxis are bad.’
This wasn’t really a shock to any of us.
In fact, late night cartoons and even spoof
movies made a punchline out of somehow making
the villain of the story some random group
of Naxis.
And Indiana Jones.
It was a for-granted indication that no matter
what violence this group of villains endured,
parents groups would consider it ‘safe.’
Because they were Naxis.
We knew what the Naxis stood for and stood
against.
That truth and justice heroically stood against
Naxi bigotry and intolerance — again, something
easily made into a punchile.
Fruity Hixler also wasn’t out of the cultural
awareness either.
So given that the culture was aware of what
made the Naxis bad, how are we watching a
certain group of people slip into that cultural
mindset of fascistic intolerance all over
again?
How is it so easy for certain groups of people
to blame immigrants, ethnic or religious minorities,
queer people, or even women for all the problems
in the world — instead of holding their
leadership and government institutions accountable?
It’s not even enough to say ‘this keeps
happening’ and, instead, more accurate to
say: this won’t stop happening.
Why is it so easy for straight, white, cisgener,
(usually) men to slip into this kind of militant
bigotry like we see in Cabaret, and like we
see beginning to play out today.
And in spite of a large chorus of our society
claiming that we don’t have anything to
worry about, nearly everyone who lived through
things like the events in Cabaret are pointing
out the red flags.
It’s hard to plot out the dance steps to
the organized, violent xenophobia — often
because it’s not usually deliberate.
It’s a reaction to present events that take
different forms.
Sometimes there’s financial hardship, other
times not.
Sometimes there’s a new ethnic group entering
the state, other times the ethnic group is
well established.
Sometimes there’s a political counter-movement,
other times not.
Two things seem to be constant in this pattern.
The first is that there is a perceived threat
to the hegemonistic way of life.
The second, is that figureheads arise who
point out that things were better before and
that they’re worse now because of a specific
reason.
That reason is… almost always a group of
people that they don’t like.
A later stage of this process involves the
leadership of this group insisting that to
make things go back to what they were, they
just need to… get rid of the thing that’s
different.
Or rather…
the thing they perceive as being different.
There’s a lot of writing about fascist regimes,
how to spot them developing, or spotting patterns
in their ideological belief systems.
But what it boils down to… seems to be a
matter of what they perceive, and how they
chose to trust their perception over all else.
And the easiest way to explain this is with
cake.
If you don’t have any cake, are you going
to get upset that you don’t have any other
cake?
Generally not, no.
You may get some cravings now and then, but
these are spontaneous.
Usually, you have to be reminded that cake
exists to really want it.
In which case, getting a spontaneous reminder
about cake — when you have a medical condition
that makes your body allergic to carbohydrates
— kinda sucks.
But cake was never an expectation in the first
place so it blows over.
However, if someone promises you cake as a
reward for, say, a series of rigorous and
perhaps deadly scientific experiments…
you’re going to get really excited about
the cake!
And even though you did not have the cake
before, if the cake was a lie, you’re going
to feel like the cake was taken away from
you.
Now the tricky part about this class of baby
fascists is that, even though cake was never
an option, they perceive a promise of cake.
Cake which they would have never received
and never will receive.
So they are angry.
And while anger can be a potent and necessary
motivational tool, if you spend too long being
angry — getting what you want isn’t going
to make you feel better — you just want
to have your anger justified.
You want permission to be angry.
Now in this analogy, the cake is an applicable
symbol.
It can be sex, status, money, opportunities,
rights, freedom — the ability to harass
people without repercussions.
Those are things though; the underlying motivation
seems to be a need to be able to have influence
over the world.
For whatever manifestation it may take — cake
is influence.
And privilege is qualified by any kind of
social expectation that you will get it.
So.
As much as you may have felt that you were
promised cake, but do not have any cake, you
feel like there is an injustice.
However, if you see that others have cake,
you may begin to feel covetous.
Hannibal Lecter: “He Covets.”
You may be very inclined to feel that these
people who have cake are a threat to your
ability to have cake.
A key component of this anger is the fear
and outrage of a perceived victimhood, which
offers a sense of righteousness when taking
steps to righting a perceived wrong.
And this is where the metaphor unravels and
we can actually start talking about the real
thing.
Because modern manifestations of fascism organize
around a particular kind of propaganda.
It begins with two perceptions: that there
is not enough cake to go around, and that
the reason you do not have cake is because
someone else has yours.
Both of these premises are false.
First: there is always enough cake to go around
— if there isn’t, it’s due to the actions
of an elite class who hoard the cake.
And they think they’re safe hoarding it
because we’ve let them believe that they
are immune to diabetes.
Second: the blame for ‘who has all the cake’
is deflected from who is actually causing
the problem by scapegoating a group of people
who have few methods of legal protection.
It’s the language of privilege that makes
it difficult to really understand why it seems
so easy for fascism to recruit from the privileged.
Especially when, within their own propaganda,
there is a paradox about privilege itself.
On one hand, privilege doesn’t exist.
They hold up a handful of examples — to
the Naxis, it was Jewish Bankers.
In our culture, dissident, angry, white people
are directed towards people of color.
How can ‘white privilege’ exist when individual
white people have it worse off than Oprah?
They cite various scholarships programs, or
laws designed to afford opportunities to women
and people of color.
And they hold up these instances and say:
“there’s no assistance for straight white
men, therefore these ‘supposed minorities’
have privileges we do not have.”
To them?
Case CLOSED on racism, sexism, or homophobia.
Nevermind that these opportunities are in
place to offset a society which still to this
day favors straight white cisgender men.
However, on the other side of this paradox
is the insistence that having privilege SHOULD
afford those who have it with a greater amount
of the influence that they seek.
What’s the point of having privilege if
you don’t have opportunities to use it?
The language of entitlement and expectations
are used to establish a sense of what life
should be like for this group of people.
This often calls back to periods of time in
national history where this demographic of
people enjoyed a great amount of cultural
influence.
Privilege doesnot exist when they need to
describe the normative condition of how their
lives OUGHT to look.
Privilege does NOT exist when they need to
frame their social victimization to justify
the fervor around their outrage for not having
the cake that their non-privilege should afford
them.
This is dumb.
Like.
It’s so incredibly dumb that you wonder
how people who engage in this discussion can’t
point it out.
How can xenophobic, exclusionary movements
of totalitarian control over a population
resulting in genocide and ethnic cleansing
that have shaped human history be rooted in
this kind of errant, egregious dumbness?
Well, to quote Voltaire…
“anything too stupid to be said… is sung.”
(“Tomorrow Belongs To Me”)
A regularly-documented aspect of fascism is
the degree to which pageantry is used to…
normalize it.
And Make a spectacle of it.
Somehow it accomplishes both of these things.
Spectacle makes it seem fun and inviting,
while at the same time a regular performance
of fascistic showmanship makes it seem like
something that is socially acceptable to participate
in.
The “well, if everyone’s doing it” mentality.
There’s a much more sinister side to this
than just offering up some comedic levity.
In queer circles, we speak to the importance
of using representation in media to normalize
queer identities.
Not everyone is going to grow up knowing the
many different kinds of queer people out there.
By having these characters and their experiences
represented in media, it can establish a sense
of familiarity.
However, the use of pageantry can be used
against minority groups.
While the initial spark of injustice seems
to be required to rally these groups together
— economic problems or what have you — these
actual causes begin to matter ‘less’ than
having open permission to be hateful and bigoted
without social recourse.
In early-stages of rallying around hate, certain
rhetoric is passed around within the hate
group.
When it was still in the beer halls, early
Naxis targeted Jewish Bankers, and held them
up as an instance of the kind of greed that
was keeping “pure Germans” from their
full potential.
(Whatever that means — because Hixler was
actually Austrian…)
And sure, there were probably some bankers
who were Jewish that were making life rough.
But there were also a lot of non-Jewish bankers;
and maybe the shitty shared quality was the
‘banker’ part, and not the Jewish part.
Some things never change.
However the rhetoric circulating in these
hate groups said that because Jewish bankers
were bad, that all Jewish people must have
been bad.
Enough time spent marinating in this echo
chamber, the less these qualities actually
applied to Jews of a particular profession,
and the more it was accepted — among the
early Naxis and their supporters — that
these are just self-evident truths, for which
no explanation or justification was required.
The initial rationality behind the hatred
was removed; ongoing persecution required
no justification, and became a matter of begging
the question.
They deserve persecution so they must be bad;
they are bad because we know they are; they
deserve persecution because they are bad.
The transition from ‘spreading awareness’
about a class of perceived “undesirables”
begins with this abandonment of reason.
They literally abandon reasons for why they
should persecute this class.
The hallmark here is the comfort with which
they begin to justify the ridicule of this
group.
Raising an alarm against some kind of threat
to privilege, children, or the moral fiber
of society — these are good for calling
people to action.
There is a threat, some righteous cause to
fight for.
But that’s not enough: you have to make
the people comfortable with hatred.
Hatred can’t feel like hatred or people
may reject it.
Hatred has to feel ‘normal’ to be publicly
and personally acceptable… which is where
comedy comes in.
Good evening, Achmed.
Good evening.
(Laughter)
Comedy is an incredibly complex human interaction.
It’s often considered a cheap thrill by
theatrical standards, we consider it an easy
form of entertainment when it comes to fart
jokes or slapstick.
However, comedies that engage audiences on
an intellectual level — such as TV shows
like Veep or Arrested Development — are
often looped in with those base-level entertainments
on merits alone.
Whether or not it’s easy to make someone
laugh (and for the fact that some people make
it look a lot easier than it is), that should
not dismiss the complex neurological process
of comedy.
As much as we may dismiss comedy as lesser-than
media, there is no specific part of the brain
that is specifically responsible for laughter.
This results in a range of neurological, psychological,
and philosophical debate about why we laugh.
However, especially when philosophers are
concerned, they all seem to hold a common
element of linking laughter to both danger,
and social connections, even if they disagree
on how these elements result in laughing.
Suffice to say, laughter seems to be seen
as the result of a pleasant reaction or resolution
of tension.
That’s why we laugh after jump scares in
horror movies.
A joke is seen as a kind of psychological
maze for which the punchline is an escape:
the relief to the tension of anticipation
results in laughter.
This is compounded in social situations where
we crave connection to other people more than
we crave a satisfying outcome to the maze.
Definitely explains why you may watch some
comedians, and from the comfort of your couch
they seem to be bombing, though the crowd
seems to be laughing themselves to death.
Also why they add a laugh track to sitcoms
even when nothing is funny.
The joint connection itself is a relief, and
a formative element of a positive memory.
This element of social connection can be very
beguiling, as often documented by film critics.
At movie premieres, it’s more than just
screening the movie.
There’s food, drinks, entertainment, mingling
— these things foster a good memory before
the movie even starts.
Many people at movie premieres will remark
that the screening itself was fantastic — only
to later watch the movie without the rose-tinted
glasses and realize that it wasn’t very
good actually.
I’m sure it isn’t hard to see how this
applies to the spread of bigoted propaganda.
And this is one of the most concerning turning
points in Cabaret.
The host sings a loving ballad about his beloved,
regarding the discrimination this gorilla
faces, and how he doesn’t care at all about
how she looks or her feral habits.
This number is cute and light, and very earnest
— and the audience naturally laughs because
it’s so absurd.
The film’s audience, in contrast to the
cabaret’s audience in the early 30s who
don’t know what’s around the corner for
Germany, is tricked into being tickled by
this warm comedic number.
The shock comes with the final line of the
number…
MC: “She wouldn’t look Jewish at all.”
Big ooof indeed.
To the in-universe audience, this is just
a joke.
And people who are offended at the establishment
using its platform and production to play
into existing stereotypes “just need to
learn to take a joke.”
The combination of being lulled into a sense
of groupthink through joint participation
in a joke, regardless of quality, in conjunction
with the familiarizing act of a joke’s role
in presenting a sense of relief and comfort
— it’s no surprise that this is yet another
tactic in fascistic pipelines.
Hook people in with the threat, familiarize
them with comedic theatrics, and install a
sense of pride through pageantry.
The Naxis specifically came at the public
through a two-pronged approach.
Although he was nothing but a lowly paper
hanger, Hixler had a knack for spotting world-class
talent and giving them an unbridled platform,
changing the course of art history.
But on the other hand, for the working class,
his cabinet empowered ‘base’ entertainers
— comedians, thespians, singers, and, yes,
the proprietors of clubs and cabarets.
Which… is another unfortunate parallel we
see expanding before our very eyes today.
It really shouldn’t come as a surprise to
me that there are a slew of stand-up comedians
who are explicitly going out of their way
to target trans people.
As a culture, we really ought to use it as
a litmus test about who, in the profession,
actually goes out of their way to make original
content.
Going after minorities or small communities
is a low-hanging fruit.
It doesn’t take a whole lot of talent to
point to something different and say:
“Boy.
You’ve heard about this thing.
The people who do this thing.
It’s different, isn’t it?”
[Laugh track]
“Like reaaaaaaaly different…”
[Laugh track — light.]
“Anyone… uh… anyone notice this?
It’s different right?”
[Laugh track — audience agrees.]
“It’s so different — it’s completely
outside the accepted norm of established socio-political
influence and authority.
[Laugh track]
It’s like we live our normal lives, and
we don’t even THINK about this, but these
people LIVE like this, right?
They ACTUALLY do the thing that we accept
as different without observing cultural or
historic context!”
[Laugh track — heavy.]
“And we’re just gonna assume OUR way of
doing things is the objectively correct way
to do things.
So we can just all agree that it's different.”
[Laugh track and clapping.]
[Pause] “Racial and/or ethnic slur.”
[Thunderous applause.]
“RIGHT???”
Though these days comedians don’t even bother
discussing anti-trans hate in their stand-up.
It’s pretty much just a bigoted tirade that
the audience howls at because the culture
has conditioned them to believe that being
told not to hate people is synonymous with
oppression.
Meanwhile, the stand up comedians playing
into this static, snapshot of culture are
the same ones claiming that the public holding
them accountable for saying hateful things
is an infringement on their freedom.
Which says a whole lot more than I think they
mean to because if you have freedom, and you
use it to choose hatred, you need to consider
that hatred isn’t exactly the gateway drug
for more freedom.
Many stand up comedians like to talk themselves
up as having this philosophically esoteric
role to the culture as being the first and
last line of defense for freedom of speech.
Ignoring the flood of reporters and now even
elected representatives who are censored and
silenced.
But… but… without stand-up comedians,
society would never be able to push boundaries.
The role of stand-up comedy is to make people
uncomfortable when a society gets too comfortable
with its own status quo… or something along
those lines.
And then they turn RIGHT around to complain
about why they can’t use comedy to target
minorities anymore.
You know.
The people who are pushed outside the fringes
of social acceptance.
I think in a lot of ways stand-up comedians
are jealous of people who belong to these
minority groups.
(And I do hate using the term minorities,
but bear with me.)
They long to exist as these fringe rockstars
who push boundaries, meanwhile people outside
the straight, cis, white hegemony do that
just by existing.
The Penguin: You’re just jealous because
I’m a genuine freak — and you have to
wear a mask!
Batman: You might be right.
No, that isn’t the last time I’m going
to use that clip.
Not to disrespect stand-up as an art.
Lewis Black, Kathy Griffin, the late great
Robin Williams, and George Carlin.
And now Hannah Gadsby.
Funny as hell, and they don’t attack people
in need of help.
They punched up.
The targets of their comedy were either self-directed,
individuals or institutions who do have a
large amount of influence, or social trends
among the hegemony as a whole.
Targeting trans people, or other minorities,
accomplishes a process of othering these people
by highlighting their differences as different
from the norm.
The aforementioned comedians who I feel are
worthy of respect, instead, often target the
INSTITUTIONS that propagate this ‘othering.’
On top of the great difficulty that it takes
to make these acts entertaining, there is
a great deal of power that this kind of charisma
holds.
Crowds of people may be easily swayed by a
charismatic figure.
And such a figure who seems so comfortable
with their subject material that it can be
passed to a crowd as common sense.
Through framing and context, the masses agree
that because this person on a stage is making
a joke out of it, that it must be true.
And if one thing they say is true, everything
they say must come from that self-evident
context.
What is said doesn’t need to be true — but
if it is spoken with enough confidence, people
will believe that its true.
And the primary component of telling a joke
is that it’s only funny if you say it with
confidence.
Marlin:
there's a mollusk, see?
And he walks up to a sea...
Well, he doesn't walk up, he swims up.
Well, actually, the mollusk isn't moving,
he's in one place.
And then the sea cucumber-
A famous quote by Bertrand Russell — and
I apologize if he’s problematic, he’s
been dead for fifty years.
But the quote, which remains exceptionally
poingnet, goes:
“The whole problem with the world is fools
and fanatics are always so certain of themselves,
and wiser people are so full of doubts.”
This harmonizes with Socrates' famous line:
“The only thing I know is that I know nothing.”
Or Albert Einstein’s: “Common sense is
nothing more than a deposit of prejudices
laid down in the mind before age eighteen.”
The more we learn, the more knowledge we realize
we do not possess.
The more we may be informed that previously-held
beliefs are false, and the less we may trust
new information.
But this is the tricky thing about doubt…
you have to know what to place it in, and
how to do it.
Doubt, like any other intelligence, is a skill.
How do you know what should be questioned
and what should be taken for granted?
If you apply this skill wrongly, you may offer
up sympathy for the devil.
“Money Makes the World Go Around”
“The world go around.
The world-”
We’re entering a period of time where an
inordinate amount of narrative effort in fiction
is driven by a need to deconstruct someone’s
rationale for WHY they’re villains.
I mean we really shouldn’t need a whole
lot of explanation to understand why that’s
probably a problematic element of society
today.
In the instance of someone being a total dickwad,
an empathetic society would rather support
the victim than focus on the perpetrator in
question.
Granted, our culture has this fixation on
victim blaming.
As if someone is asking to get burgled if
they have their valuables in a jewelry box
instead of a safety deposit box.
Cut to the: “well what was she wearing?”
argument.
Of course, empathizing with victims in a pragmatic
way would result in making changes to core
elements of society that generate these crimes
or aggressions in the first place and we’re
allergic to that.
There’s a mindset that, if we interview,
analyze, and reason with individuals within
fascism — those who even 20 years ago would
have been easily considered villains, yet
saying that today somehow makes it ‘political’
— that if we get inside their head we can
figure out what makes them tick.
That it’s important to understand WHY they’re
fascist.
What elements of the culture are feeding into
this?
Which…
first… yeah we’ve been doing that but
at the same time I’m not seeing a whole
lot of administrative directives aimed at
redirecting people away from fascist pipelines.
This is what people have been screaming at
Facebook, Twitter, Tumbler, and even YouTube
to do for ages.
And failing that, with business lords citing
freedom of… the market… or whatever — we
looked to our democratic leaders to oppose
an indoctrinating political system whose sole
purpose is to usurp democracy and we continually
get a big ol’ ‘meh.’
The ending result of this is an after-school
special about bullying.
A lot of TV shows had one.
The main characters are getting horribly bullied,
and they get mad at their bully for bullying
them, so they concoct some revenge scheme,
and then they learn that their bully was actually
bullied themselves, and then they feel bad
and apologize for their revenge, and their
bully is never held accountable for being
an absolute dick!
I’m not outing myself as a Broney.
My co-writer had a stoner phase and was held
at gunpoint to binge a lot of kids shows.
This particular episode is shitty because
it sets a precedent for ignoring wrongs against
you, in lieu of empathizing with the people
wronging you.
This is formative children’s media…
Why is it fostering a sense of martyrdom?
Sure friendship and cooperation are great,
but when it comes to this friendship-vibes-only,
how much are you supposed to endure before
you stand up for yourself?
And this is compounded through a collection
of modern animated films.
Dreamworks’ The Bad Guys itself was a movie
focusing exclusively on this.
With the added twist of the surprise villain
(Which is now a staple of Disney too)… who
you could spot the second he was on screen.
But still, the primary discussion of that
film was “Let’s talk about WHY the bad
guys are bad.”
Meanwhile: the only thing I want to talk about
was why are only the main characters furries?
Couldn’t they throw in an anthro or two
in the background?
While I thought it was a decent animated movie,
the conclusion the film comes to is that people
are ‘bad’ because that’s how they’re
treated their whole lives.
Which may or may not be true, but the script
does outstandingly little to outline what
‘bad’ means, when I feel that there — on
a societal level — needs to be a much more
nuanced understanding of badness.
People committing petty crimes are ‘bad’
because they’re locked in a cycle of poverty
and this is how they have been conditioned
to think is an acceptable way to make ends
meet.
While the depiction of carnivores in Bad Guys
establishes this on a visual level, there’s
little done to explore this nuance, or offer
any kind of resolution to the problem.
In fact, by the end of the movie, there is
no social prerogative for society to change
its perspective on visual profiling.
The only social development is that the population
learns that you can’t trust furries.
Any of them.
The audience is meant to take away the real
messaging of course, to not judge a book by
its cover.
Give the ‘bad guys’ a chance.
But it does very little to establish different
treatments for different kinds of badness.
The only form of ‘badness’ it demonstrates
is robbery, and even then the only real difference
between the hamster and the wolf is how much
we are implored to empathize with their emotional
arc.
How are we to separate the people who are
bad without the opportunities to be good,
and people who are just bad?
And provided enough emotional context, are
we being conditioned to believe that everyone
can be good given the opportunity?
Are we really meant to take away that there
are no villains, only people you haven’t
made friends with?
Just negotiate with fascists and find a suitable
compromise between freedom and genocide?
Hixler was a sober vegetarian who liked dogs,
you know!
YEAH!
To what ‘badness’ is owed empathy and
to which kind do we need to be on the lookout
for?
Maybe if we just give that apparent bad guy
or rival a chance, we’ll learn that they’re
not bad, and that we should apologize for
not seeing how rough they had it in spite
of the complete lack of their ability to communicate
their hard shit.
It’s OUR FAULT that we didn’t have enough
empathy.
And this is on TOP of the aforementioned ‘wolf
in sheep's clothing’ trope that’s been
established lately.
Where you don’t know WHO the Disney Villain
is.
That it’s NOT the seemingly obvious bad
guy, but instead, the person you wouldn’t
have expected.
Which culminates in this grand encouragement
to empathize with those that the public decries
as a villain, but constantly be on guard to
wait for a moment when the REAL bad guy shows
their true colors.
All the while this media does very little
to establish a methodology for how to differentiate
between either of those, or to point out when
someone really is as straightforward as they
seem.
That person holding up a convenience store
is likely in that situation of generational
poverty regardless of their decisions.
But that person at a rally threatening violence
against trans people, immigrants, or people
of color…
They have made some CHOICES.
“Choices”
Taking people who turn to violence or violent
rhetoric, and trying to find clues in their
past to justify WHY they would do that inherently
seeks to frame them as a victim.
What was done UNTO them to MAKE them feel
this way?
They are framed as a victim of a larger societal
construct.
Which.
Jesus christ, people—
-inclined to feel that these people who have
cake are a threat to your ability to have
cake.
A key component of this anger is the fear
and outrage of a perceived victimhood, which
offers a sense of righteousness when taking
steps to righting a perceived wrong.
The more this kind of focus is placed upon
analyzing these fascists as lost boys who
society left behind, the more we reinforce
these structures of self-victimization.
Especially insofar as it validates a fear
that society has forgotten about those of
privilege, and to what privilege itself is
allegedly owed.
And at the end of this is the promise that
investigating why someone would want to commit
to this kind of organized bigotry would offer
some technique on how to prevent it.
But granted, especially in America, there
are two ‘p-words’ — pussy, and preventative.
Ben Shapiro:
“Bring a bucket and a mop for this wet-ass
P-word.”
So we end up in a cultural state where we
have no recourse for how to redirect people
out of fascist circles, leading to a collection
of trans women fighting back a cumulative
nervous breakdown from their efforts of trying
to stem the tide of this pipeline without
a road map.
In spite of all this information we have,
we still know very little about how to de-radicalize
people from these violent spaces.
And without the information being used — and
there is a LOT of information — to develop
practical solutions to a literal threat against
contemporary Democracy, we just have a heap
of data about fascists’ emotions.
Party.
We have next to no documentation about the
success rates of citizens, creators, influencers,
and entertainers who are throwing darts in
the dark to figure out what’s going to stick.
And also next to no public interest in the
people who are victims OF this hateful, violent
rhetoric.
Because you’d think that in an empathic,
compassionate society, those are the people
— the people whose very lives are an affront
to fascism — to whom our interest would
be drawn.
But no.
Let’s feed into the privilege of people
who feel like their privilege owes them more
out of life, by making everything about their
emotions.
Fascists: they’re the REAL victims of fascism
— The moral weight of their choices are
the real casualties.
Which is a romantic notion, if you don’t
take into account actual fascists in real
life.
The hordes of SS officers being called to
testify at Nuremberg who expressed not a feather
of remorse for their actions.
And I don’t even want to blame all of our
leaders and lawmakers for not making efforts
to legislate the kind of circumstances that
could make a whole population comfortable
enough to not feel like their way of life
is at risk.
Raise wages to match the cost of living, impose
rent control to force landlords to price competitively,
subsidize essential goods, generate public
options for power, water, and communications.
Because there are people who are trying to
do these things.
The problem is, when it comes to a substantial
portion of the population—
-anger can be a potent and necessary motivational
tool, if you spend too long being angry — getting
what you want isn’t going to make you feel
better — you just want to have your anger
justified.
You want permission to be angry.
Which is how you end up in situations where
the population actively resists actions that
will make their lives easier.
And this can be indoctrinated through any
number of methods— usually by saying “this
helpful thing is actually part of an organization
you hate.”
You hate the organization, so you hate the
thing.
Coupled with a strong centrist movement that
thinks that life can be beautiful as long
as you ignore anything that isn’t — well
this is how you get fascists.
MC: We have no troubles here.
Here life is beautiful!
And all of this isn’t just in reference
to the Third Reich or The KKK or their sad
little modern imitators.
There are a large number of groups in human
history who fought from the bottom rung of
the ladder to improve their living conditions.
From slave revolts over the span of the Roman
Empire — to several waves of French peasants
who, over the course of a century, toppled
a disconnected and clueless ruling aristocracy,
and changed the political landscape of Europe
to this day.
As much as we look at those battles and say:
“Yes those were righteous causes.”
The Third Reich and the KKK also felt their
causes were righteous.
Which brings us to today where — sigh — a
significant group of people seem to hold queer
people responsible for all the world’s problems.
And not, you know, the ongoing greed-mongering,
crony-capitalist, post-colonial, nepotistic,
pseudo-democratic oligarchy which we like
to pretend passes for a society that lends
power to the people.
But let’s NOT blame the people running that
show, and instead let’s blame preferred
pronouns as the root of all evil.
That’s…
That’s it…
That…
We — the left-leaning, progressive, and
socially-minded of us — typically celebrate
the downtrodden and underclasses standing
up for their own dignities.
But it’s this language of ‘righteousness’
that seems to work against us at times.
Righteousness is a vague term, and (I find)
more accurately describes a kind of air that
someone carries themself with, rather than
an objective sense of doing what is right
or just.
Which explains a lot about our society, actually.
But it’s the specific word ‘righteous’
that messes it all up.
Because while there may be — through some
ethical philosophy — an objective sense
of what is truly righteous through any singular
definition of the word… in a pragmatic sense,
the word really does boil down to perspective.
For whom is justice liberation; and for whom
is justice regression?
In our fights and struggles for the minorities
and second-class citizens to be recognized
with dignity and respect, the language of
our struggle did not go unnoticed.
And the privileged, who celebrate heroism
and heroic deeds envy these battles and they
envy our figureheads for representing the
values they can only ascribe to their ancestors.
They cannot live out these battles in their
lifetimes — so they make a show of it.
And we’ve seen this song and dance before.
We’ve heard this music, the lyrics calling
out to condemn those who barely have any rights
to begin with.
These songs, these dances.
They’re not new.
We’ve seen them play out over and over again
on stages all around the world.
These people put on a show to tell the world
how repressed they are, even though they’re
in the biggest show in town.
But it’s all so hollow.
Like a story written by an AI.
They plagiarize our struggles and our fights
and appropriate it into their pageantry.
But our struggles, our victories, our lives
will always outlast their theatrics — because
theater is only a story…
And every story, eventually, comes to an end.